[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
We are broadcasting
from Denver, Colorado.
And there are many, many rules
and laws that we go by in life.
However, what about
the rules of life?
Who writes those?
My guest today, Pam
Grout, has assembled
a book of nine experiments
called "E Squared."
There are nine do-it-yourself
energy experiments
that prove your thoughts,
create your reality.
Thank you so much
for being here.
>>PAM GROUT: Yeah,
thanks for having me.
It's a lot of fun.
>>LISA: So tell me
about why you wrote
the book in the first place.
>>GROUT: Well, I
think these principles
that I try to
prove in the book--
that I attempt for people to
prove-- are very important.
I think people really need
to know these principles.
I think that our lives
work better when we have
these principles in our lives.
So basically, I wrote them as
a way for people to test it.
And it's also for the skeptic.
You know, you can talk about
these principles all you want.
As somebody in the Bible says,
"faith without works is dead."
So this is a way of-- yeah,
right, give it lip service
all you want, but you really
need to put it into practice.
And these experiments,
they're really simple.
They take about 48 hours.
So it gives people a
chance, because if you say,
will you commit to
a 10-week program?
Most people go 10 weeks?
This is just 48 hours.
Just give it a try.
See if, indeed, your thoughts
do create your reality,
if there really is an
effect on your life.
So basically, it's just
a real quick and easy way
to get people-- it's kind
of like double-dog dare you.
Double-dog dare you.
>>LISA: Were there thoughts
that were not being real?
Or were you having a
challenging time in your life?
Why write a book about
why your thoughts create--
or proving why your thoughts
create your reality.
>>GROUT: Because I think
people need to know this.
It's for the skeptic.
It's for the people
that have believed
it but weren't totally sure.
It's also for people that
have, oh, yeah, right Pam.
So it's just a way to
get people to realize,
because we need to know
about these principles.
Because these experiments
all prove principles
that are very
important, like the fact
that the universe has your back.
People need to know that.
They need to know that there is
this benevolent force that they
can connect with that
wants to guide them.
And so it's very important
that people know that.
Their lives will just work
better if they know that.
So, yeah, you can say that,
but here's a way to prove that.
>>LISA: How did you first
discover that for yourself?
Was life not working for you?
>>GROUT: No.
I mean life's always
pretty much worked for me.
I've known about these
principles a lot in my life.
I mean, I've had challenges,
just like everybody else.
But I began studying
these principles,
I don't know, ages ago.
And I've seen them.
Everybody knows this idea that
you think about something,
and then you see evidence of
it recreating in your life.
So I think it's a principle that
we all have this inkling about,
but we're not exactly
sure how it works.
>>LISA: I think
everyone knows about it
in the personal
development world,
but do people really know
about it outside of this world?
>>GROUT: Maybe not everybody.
But now it's starting to become
a little bit more mainstream.
I think more people
are aware of that.
But if you ask people, even
those that are practicing it,
everybody has a little bit
more of awareness of it
than they pretend
to, oftentimes.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
And they use it in different
ways in their life.
Or they call it a synchronicity.
>>GROUT: Right.
Exactly.
Or that was just a coincidence.
>>LISA: Right.
Coincidence is a big thing.
But those are when things
usually really work out.
>>GROUT: Right.
Right.
Well, this force is always
trying to get through to us,
constantly.
>>LISA: This force.
What is this force?
>>GROUT: I call it the field
of infinite potentiality.
It has many, many names.
One of the names I've been
using lately is the divine buzz.
There's this energy force
that is so powerful.
And we're all connected to it.
And we should use it.
So it's been called
God over the years.
In fact, that's one
of things I talked
about a lot in "E Squared" is
that because it was called God,
we have a lot of baggage
around that word.
So a lot of people
would run away.
It was like, I don't want to
have anything to do with that.
So it doesn't really matter
what you call this force.
It doesn't care.
But it is there to
be used all the time.
So like in the
quantum world, there
are infinite potentialities--
infinite ways
something could happen.
There is no absolute reality.
So how we affect and
play with this field
is according to our
beliefs and expectations.
So we draw from this big field
of literally infinite ways
that things could pan out.
We draw from this just our
little tiny little bit of it--
expectations and
information that we have,
or these beliefs, these
opinions that we've
been taught-- these mental
constructs that we've
been taught.
So basically, that's what it is.
It's just this big
field of infinite,
teeming energy of just
anything could happen.
It's really exciting.
It's magical.
It's miraculous.
And that's why people
need to know about it.
>>LISA: And you know,
you've been a travel
writer for a long time.
What was your experience
like switching
from writing about travel--
>>GROUT: I still
write about travel.
>>LISA: Of course.
>>GROUT: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>LISA: But also
writing about energy.
>>GROUT: You know, energy
affects every person.
It's not just like energy
workers or, I don't know--
>>LISA: Shamans.
>>GROUT: Right.
I mean, everybody uses
energy, but not everybody's
aware of it.
It's an invisible force,
so a lot of people
don't exactly trust
it or believe in it.
But we all use it all the time.
You can't not use it.
You're always sending out--
you're like this magnet,
and you're sending out your
vibration, your thoughts out
into the world, and then
drawing it back to you.
I mean, like exact
vibrational matches.
So people constantly use it.
They just aren't aware of it.
And so what this
book does is help
people use it in a
more conscious way,
in a more intentional way.
>>LISA: Practical
way-- very practical.
>>GROUT: And also
practical, yeah.
>>LISA: Yep.
All right.
So let's talk about some of
the philosophies that you
have in the book
about "the world
is abundant and unlimited."
I love that concept.
>>GROUT: Right.
>>LISA: This is who
you're being, right?
>>GROUT: This is the
truth of the world.
If you look at nature--
>>LISA: It's not just Pam.
>>GROUT: No.
The world is abundant.
In fact, anybody that doesn't
see the abundance of the world
has got blinders on.
And that's the mental
constructs that I talked about
in "E Cubed."
But if you go out and look
at a square foot of grass,
you can't even count all
the blades of grass there.
Think about all the
leaves on a tree.
There is so much
abundance in nature.
We have tried to
block it off again,
with these mental
constructs, but it's not
the truth of the way it is.
So there is a natural abundance.
And once you start being
aware of the natural abundance
of the world, it will come to
you in a lot of other ways.
We have so much baggage
around abundance.
We think it all has to
do with money and things
like that, which is
completely-- money
is just a representation of
your beliefs and expectations.
It's not even real.
Money is not even real.
But it's just a reflection
of how you see it
and how you believe in it.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>GROUT: We've
created these systems,
that this is how we think
money is, but it's not real.
It's just a man-made concept.
>>LISA: Well, let's talk
about that for a second.
So money is a reflection
of who you are?
>>GROUT: It's a result of your
beliefs and expectations--
how it shows up in your world.
>>LISA: Energetically.
>>GROUT: Energetically, yes.
I did an article.
I write a lot for
"People" magazine.
And I once did an article.
They love stories
about millionaires
who give their money away.
So I did a story
about this woman.
Her grandfather had invented
the dial telephone or something.
So she had millions.
But she didn't feel right when
other people didn't, so she
gave all her money away.
But she grew up in that
prosperity consciousness.
Obviously, she grew up
in a very wealthy family.
She gave all her money away.
Started a little business
to kind of help people
raise money for charity.
She really wants
to do good works.
Before long, she
had another million.
I mean, that was
her consciousness.
It's going to come
to you however
you're used to seeing it.
Same with if you're used
to seeing it as limited,
and there's not
enough, you're going
to create that in your life.
So it really is
just a reflection.
That's what I'm saying.
It's all man-made concepts,
the concept of money,
but it's a reflection of how
we choose to interact with it.
>>LISA: But the
book is all about
how you can take that-- if
you were to raised with,
maybe, a scarcity complex--
that you can actually
change that, based on the
evidence from your book,
that energy is real.
>>GROUT: Right.
I have little experiments
that people can try.
Like the one about money
is in that "E Cubed."
So that's the second book
that has experiments.
But yeah.
>>LISA: What is the
money experiment?
>>GROUT: Well, there's
a couple different ones.
One of them is to
actually seed money.
So you actually put
money out there.
Like my daughter and I, for
example, went to Chicago.
And we took little
$5 bills, and we'd
stick them in along Miracle
Mile, like on hangers
on Miracle Mile.
Or just on park
benches, or whatever.
The world is abundant.
So we just kind of seeded money.
Because you can't
outgive the universe.
And so then see if any
money comes back to you.
And in my case, my book went
onto the "New York Times"
Best-Seller list at that time.
So it certainly worked for me.
But that's one of them.
Another one is just to
start looking for pennies.
And to realize, again,
it's just energy.
So you celebrate
every penny you find.
And you realize, wow,
there's pennies everywhere.
I mean, they're just abundant.
So in the quantum world,
any tiny little thing
that's close to the big thing--
I mean, it's all the same.
It's just like a holograph
of the big thing.
So you just start
celebrating all the money,
if you want to talk
about just money.
I mean, to me, abundance is
a lot more than just money.
But that's what a
lot of people tend
to think of when they
talk about abundance.
>>LISA: When you give the
example of a piece of grass,
think about all the blades, all
the soil, all of the insects.
I mean, there is an abundant
little square foot of grass.
Yeah, there's a lot
of abundance there.
>>GROUT: It's so amazing.
And once you start really
looking at even this moment,
how much is right here.
There's so much energy.
It's just teeming
with possibility.
It's just so exciting.
I mean, once you start
looking for abundance,
that's all you see.
>>LISA: So that's how you
can shift your energy.
And then those things
about leaving the money
and seeding the
money, or the pennies,
it's just a manifestation
of the energy.
>>GROUT: Right.
>>LISA: So when you start to
create it over and over again
by those little
practices that seem
like they don't mean anything,
but it's the cumulative effect
of them, right?
>>GROUT: It's not
even cumulative.
It's hooking into that
particular resonant field.
The resonant field
of giving away money
is there's abundance.
I can give away everything
and it will come back to me.
So then you're hooking into
a different resonant field.
It's like a radio station
or television station.
There's certain waves
that create that one.
So you want to hook
into this other wave,
this other station, this other
resonant field of abundance.
>>LISA: So then you say,
the more that I give,
the more I receive.
>>GROUT: Exactly.
>>LISA: But that's
something that's,
oh, you don't give to receive.
And there's a--
>>GROUT: You don't do
it for that reason.
But that's what
you end up finding.
You do it because you
love it and because you
know the universe
has more than enough.
And that is our natural state--
to be joyful, to be giving.
We feel good when we give.
We want to give.
We don't need to accumulate a
bunch of crap, to be honest.
We don't need all this stuff.
It doesn't make us happy.
Giving-- it's a
natural circulation.
It's a flow that continues.
And it's our job
to keep it flowing.
>>LISA: Yeah.
So in the book-- the
first book, "E Squared"--
you have these great experiments
that kind of just show how
energy shows up in the world.
The first one we could talk
about is the The Dude Abides.
Right?
What is that one?
>>GROUT: I called it that.
All the titles of the
experiments are kind of funny.
I mean, the principles are
very serious-- not serious,
but it's a very accurate truth.
But I can named them
all funny things,
because I feel like anything
that's going to be sustainable
has to be fun.
Anything you want to continue,
you've got to make it fun.
And so, anyway, The
Dude Abides, of course,
is a take off on Jeff Bridges'
movie, "The Big Lebowski."
He talks about,
"The Dude abides."
So The Dude could be called God.
It's just the fact that there
is this force out there.
Again, the name doesn't matter,
but I just called it that.
And so what I do
is I tell people,
it's throwing down the gauntlet.
You've got 48 hours to
say, you know what, Dude?
You know what, big guy?
If you're really out
there, I want a sign.
And just ask for a sign.
The stories I hear are amazing.
In fact, every day I get
emails from people saying,
you are never going
to believe this.
And then they tell me about
their miracle stories.
It's just amazing.
I mean, I believed
in these principles.
I've used them in
my own life forever.
But to get all this
concrete evidence--
>>LISA: Now you get
to see them show up.
>>GROUT: --every day,
constantly, it's so exciting.
And it's just really
strengthened my belief
in these principles.
I mean, I knew
they worked for me.
But obviously, if it's
indeed a true principle,
then it's going to
work for everybody.
It is reproducible.
And certainly, with
these experiments,
it has been
reproducible for others.
And like I said,
this force just is
dying to-- that's a
bad choice of words--
is really eager to
connect with all of us.
It really wants to.
It loves us.
I always think of
at a rodeo, there's
that little fence,
when they open it up,
and the bull comes
charging out of the fence.
It's like that is that force.
It's just right there.
All you have to do is lift that
door, and it comes charging in.
And that's how eager it
is to interact with us.
>>LISA: That is beautiful.
It's a great way
of looking at it.
I'm going to give--
so another example.
The Alby Einstein Principle.
You, too, are a field of energy.
What do you mean by that?
>>GROUT: All of us are energy.
There is no such
thing as matter.
I mean, if you really
break down matter,
it's 99.9% space, basically.
It's consciousness.
And so we are energy.
That's why our thoughts
go out and interact
with this big energy field
that we're all part of.
Everything is energy.
I mean, everything.
And so I call it the
Alby Einstein Principle
because he's the first that
kind of suggested that maybe we
are energy and not matter.
And so on that
one, I have people
make these little wands
that are easy to make out
of hangers in the closet.
>>LISA: You have a few here.
>>GROUT: Yes.
Well, we have a couple of them
>>LISA: You brought with you.
I love this.
Have wands, will travel.
>>GROUT: Yes, exactly.
>>LISA: Do you want to try, too?
>>GROUT: Sure.
>>LISA: Show me how to do this.
>>LISA: OK.
You can do this at home.
>>GROUT: Yes.
>>LISA: Coat hanger.
>>GROUT: Although I
have since discovered
that in the Norwegian
countries, they
don't have metal hangers,
because many of my readers
have written to me and say,
we don't have metal hangers.
But you can use any
metal whatsoever.
So what you do is you hold
them out in front of you.
And as you'll notice, they
are kind of waving around,
which this is your energy.
>>LISA: And these are
straws that are over--
>>GROUT: Right.
So you're not actually
holding the metal.
You are not really
with the metal.
You're holding the straw.
And so it's able to
pivot inside the straw.
So what I have
people do-- and there
have been so many YouTubes that
have been put up about this.
And in fact, if anybody
wants to Google Alby Einstein
wands, or my name
and Einstein wands,
they'll see all these things.
OK.
Think of something
negative, like something
scary and frightening.
And again-- OK.
See now, look how my wands
have crossed in on each other.
>>LISA: That started
off in the beginning.
>>GROUT: OK.
So now, let's think
of something--
think of the most
exciting thing.
Like, wow, your new
book just came out.
This is the most
exciting thing ever.
You're going to be traveling
all over the world,
promoting your book.
I mean, look at it.
They just open up completely.
Or mine did.
>>LISA: Maybe that
was scary to me.
>>GROUT: Yeah.
Well, yeah, it's true.
It does give you
some-- But people
are using these to find things.
But maybe you were thinking
about the interview.
But just really kind
of think about it.
Close your eyes
and think about--
and it doesn't have to be that.
Maybe that isn't
exciting to you.
Think of something that
makes you joyful and happy.
>>LISA: And do I close my eyes?
>>GROUT: You can.
You know, whatever.
But just think of, like,
the most exciting thing
in the world.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
That's awesome.
>>GROUT: Well, yours
are going over there.
Something exciting
to you over there.
Maybe the mountains.
Aren't the mountains
that direction?
>>LISA: Oh, that's
exciting to me.
I love mountains.
I was thinking
about my daughter.
So that's really cool.
>>GROUT: Or maybe it's
pointing towards your daughter.
I don't know what
direction we are.
People will use them
sometimes to find things.
People have been using them
for all kinds of things.
But anyway, it's
been really fun.
And like I said, there's
somebody YouTubes
up now with people
using these wands.
People take them down to
the bar for party tricks.
People are like, whoa,
that's-- Because again,
this is something you can
see with your own two eyes.
If you have visible
proof, you're
more likely to believe it.
So the wands have
been really powerful.
>>LISA: Something
for people-- Now, I
know that your book has also
been very, very well-received
all over the world.
>>GROUT: 34 languages,
at last count.
There might be-- it
may be up to more,
but the last I
heard-- last I asked.
>>LISA: Was there a
particular country
that stood out in your mind
that was really interested?
>>GROUT: Well, in Japan, it
sold like--I don't know--
a quarter million copies.
So it's been really
popular in Japan.
In fact, you know
how on Twitter, you
see-- all these tweets are on
there in the Japanese language.
I have no idea what they say.
And so I get all these Facebook
messages, all in Japanese.
And I am going to Japan to
give a workshop in October.
And in fact, it's so cute.
One of the guys that's
hosting me over there, he
just-- you know that song-- Bob
Marley, "Three Little Birds"?
He just did a song on
his little guitar--
and it's a guitar--
a special guitar--
they make in southern Japan.
And he's singing that song.
And he's singing,
"don't worry, be happy."
And it was just so cute!
You know, all the Japanese
accent, or whatever.
But anyway, so he just sent that
to me, which was a lot of fun.
Because that is
sort of the message,
that if you get on the
joy channel-- again,
that's that frequency where
it's your natural frequency.
That's the way it's
supposed to be.
And so you get on
that frequency,
and life just starts
working for you.
And that's what I try to
teach people in my books.
I don't know that
I'm trying to teach,
I'm just telling them about it.
>>LISA: You're
giving the example.
So when you say, universe,
you've got 48 hours,
show me the money.
Or show me the something.
Do you hear from people that
it actually works for them?
Or do you hear--
>>GROUT: Oh, all the time!
>>LISA: Can you give me a
story or example of one?
>>GROUT: Well, "E Cubed"
is filled with stories.
The chapter's called Well, Duh!
And then so I go through
the nine principles again,
and then I talk about
some of the letters that
have come into me.
One woman manifested
$100,000 she
was totally unprepared for that
just came in out of the blue.
I mean, that's a pretty--
again, because we're talking
money, that's sort of one
a lot of people, I think,
have baggage around that one.
Of the interesting
ones-- I have one
where you try to send
a message to someone.
And so this one
woman decided she
wanted to communicate
with her Aunt Neva, who
has passed to the other side.
But she was doing a genealogy.
She wasn't able to find out
anything about Aunt Neva.
It was kind of a
mysterious death.
But she happened
to have her ring.
And in there, I
mentioned that if you've
shaken hands with someone,
you're energetically connected.
So she thought,
well, I had her ring,
so that's sort of being
energetically connected.
She'd been trying for months
and months and months,
trying all these
geology records,
trying to find anything
about Neva-- Aunt Neva.
She does the experiment.
She's going to try to send
a message-- communicate
with Aunt Neva.
Within that 48-hour time
frame, she gets a little notice
from California, which is
where Aunt Neva had lived.
We just found all
of her records.
Evidently, she'd
had one-- I don't
know-- like maybe her
middle initial incorrect,
or something.
But here was this whole entire
cache of information-- cache,
C-A-C-H-E-- of information
about Aunt Neva.
Whoa!
Those wands are still
moving around with you!
>>LISA: That was really funny.
So she found the information.
>>GROUT: Right.
Right.
So those are the kind of
just really cool stories.
One of the ones, the
Volkswagen Jetta,
have people look
for certain things.
The idea being that you're going
to draw from the field whatever
you're thinking about,
whatever your focused upon.
We animate into
our material world
whatever we focus upon, whatever
we place our attention upon.
So I'd have people write me.
They'd go, how do I get
the butterflies to stop?
Or how do I get
the clowns to stop?
Somebody will say they
want to get clowns.
It's like, they said, every
time I get in the car,
Emeli Sande's "Clowns"
is playing on the radio.
So it's just like it
goes on and on and on.
It never ends.
So it's kind of funny.
People are like, help!
How do I stop them?
>>LISA: Would you explain
that a little bit further,
about the Jetta Principle,
that you'd call it.
>>GROUT: Yeah.
I called it that, again,
because when you first
decide on a new car you
want, you think, oh I'm
the only one in town
that'll have this car.
It's going to be so cool.
And then, once
you start looking,
it's like, wow,
they're everywhere.
And so what I have people
do is pick a simple object.
I mean, they can pick anything.
People have done-- one
of the things I suggest
is yellow butterflies,
or purple feathers,
or something like that.
But people have done
sailboats, they've done clowns,
they've done monks.
Just all kinds of stuff.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>GROUT: Yeah.
And then just see
how many they notice.
My favorite story
around that-- and I've
this a few times-- is
about the girl that decided
to look for white feathers.
And she just set
it and forget it.
Set it and forget it.
She went off to geocache
with her family.
She's driving back home,
and this traffic slows down.
She wasn't even thinking
about this white feather.
I mean, she's off
doing fun-- whatever.
Her daughter says, mom, look!
Somebody must have
killed a chicken.
Four miles along either
side of the freeway,
as the cars were stopped
down, were white feathers.
She said, I don't know if a
mattress truck turned over.
I have no idea.
But there were four
miles of white feathers
on the other side of the road.
Then they get home.
The traffic starts moving again.
They get home.
And on the mat going into their
home is one white feather.
And she said the message she
got was that the universe said,
you know, I can give you so
much more than you ever ask for.
But anyway, so those kinds of
stories I get all the time.
>>LISA: I love that.
And it's across the
world, you get them.
So now, what's the difference
between "E Squared" and E
Cubed"?
What did you write in "E Cubed"?
>>GROUT: "E Cubed" has nine more
experiments for people to try.
But it goes a little
bit deeper into some
of the things that
block us from being
aware of this miraculous
world we live in.
I talk a lot about
worldview 1.0.
And that's kind of
what we're living in.
In fact, my plan for
the book, I wanted
to have it printed upside down.
>>LISA: I saw the
first page was--
>>GROUT: Right.
Hay House would not
allow me to do that.
They said that people would
take it back to the bookstore.
But the point being
that most of what
we think-- most of what we
believe-- is a limitation.
And it's not even true.
It's so much bigger than we
could even begin to imagine.
So I wanted to just show that
it's upside down-- most of what
we think is upside down.
So in there, I talk
about worldview 1.0.
Some of the things that
we believe are fact--
>>LISA: Such as?
>>GROUT: Well, that God
is a force outside of me.
That's one.
When actually-- or life
is a force outside of me.
I emanate with life.
Let's see, what are
some of the other?
I call them memes.
You know, it's
something that's spread
throughout our-- it's this
mental architecture that we've
all picked up.
>>LISA: It's important that we
understand that these are not
things that we are aware of.
That these memes are things that
we just live our life by that
don't have anything
necessarily to do with reality.
>>GROUT: Right.
And we think they're
gospel truth.
We believe it's really true.
And in fact, they're so
insidious that we don't even
realize that we
think these things.
It's just like we just
believe that's the way it is.
So when you start
looking-- like,
say if you make an intention
for-- I don't know--
we'll go back to
the money thing--
more abundance in your life.
Then everything
that's not like that's
going to come up to
show you, hey, here's
a block that you have.
So these are things that you are
living from and operating from.
It's like a program--
a software--
that we're running
in our systems that
is playing out in our lives.
And it's not any more
true than anything else.
It's just how we have
been taught to believe
in what we think is reality.
>>LISA: What made you
discover these memes
and what they have to do with
creating your own reality?
>>GROUT: Well, I
just started looking
at some of the beliefs
that people have,
and some of the
beliefs that I've had,
and some of the things that
trick us and we stumble upon.
>>LISA: Well, the events
happened, therefore,
I feel bad.
>>GROUT: Oh, now, see,
that's a really good one.
I like it.
And we're taught how
to view everything.
Really, life is kind of neutral.
But we've decided that
this particular event
is a bad thing.
And it's all of our
judgments and whatnot
that we have about
the way life is.
So that is a really good one.
"Events happened, therefore,
I feel bad."
Events have nothing to
do with how we feel.
How we feel is our
mental state only.
Viktor Frankl, of course, is
the classic example of that.
I recently befriended a guy
who was born with some disease
where he literally cannot
move any part of his body.
I mean, his parents have to
get him in and out of bed,
and dress him, and
all that stuff.
But he has a mental attitude
of just happiness and joy.
And he's a 21-year-kid.
He's hilarious.
I mean, the point is,
joy is our natural state,
unless we decide to block it.
Most of these memes have
blocked our natural joy.
>>LISA: And here's
another one, that
says "I think, therefore I am."
So what you think, for the most
part, you think is irrelevant.
>>GROUT: Well, we have
all these thoughts.
And we think they are us.
In fact, the new book
that I'm writing--
I have a section there,
"Don't Be Your Mind's Bitch."
Because we have these
thoughts-- these judgments
about ourselves.
And we think that's who we are.
That's not who we are.
We are this big, beautiful,
bounteous, consciousness.
And these thoughts
that just come through
are just these
niggling little things.
But what we do is we invite
them in for martinis.
We invite them in.
Hey, come on in!
Let's have lunch!
Or let's party!
Right.
If we would just sort of let
them go right on through,
then we can get back
into that now moment,
where this bounteous
love and life is.
>>LISA: So do you--
overall-- do you care
what people think about you?
Or do you just let that go?
>>GROUT: You know, I still
care from time to time.
I mean, I'm still human.
But I feel that it's
very unimportant.
The only thing
that really matters
is what I think,
really, about myself.
But yeah, I still-- I
mean, hey, I'm human.
>>LISA: But this
is the idea-- is
to start to let go
of that, because we
care too much about what
people think about us.
Here's a good one-- another
meme. "No pain, no gain."
>>GROUT: Right.
We all think life
is really hard.
And if we put our nose
to the grindstone,
then everything's
going to work out.
The truth of it is that the more
we get into the joy channel--
if you approach everything you
do on this state of happiness,
like that resonant field of
joy, and miraculous, and life is
wonderful, things just work out.
Things just come to you.
You dont' have to go
out seeking for them.
They just work.
But that's the exact
opposite of how we're taught.
We're taught that life
sucks and then you die.
I mean, that's basically the--
And then look at the news media.
And look at all those
things that we've
programmed in that's not
even-- it's an anomaly.
All these things we're
reading about in the news--
they're anomalies.
They're not the
state of the world.
They're not the way
things are there.
>>LISA: They're
newsworthy, but--
>>GROUT: I don't even
that they're newsworthy.
If you think the news is
a representation of what's
going on in the world,
we should be telling news
about all the people that are
out there helping each other,
that are loving each other.
You know, I was just
mentioning earlier how I
covered the tornado in Joplin.
And of course, that was a
pretty devastating thing.
But the love that came out from
people, the gifts, and the--
>>LISA: Support.
>>GROUT: --just this show--
I mean, just unbelievable.
So that is the
truth of the world.
That is really the truth.
That is what is news.
And that's what we should be
proclaiming from the rooftops.
>>LISA: It's just not
sexy enough, though.
It's not in the headlines.
>>GROUT: Well it
is kind of sexy.
>>LISA: I think so.
>>GROUT: We think it's not.
People respond to-- people
love a good news story.
>>LISA: You know, that's
a good point about-- it's
a great example of letting go
of memes, because we think,
if it bleeds, it leads.
>>GROUT: Exactly.
Every journalist loves that.
>>LISA: And it's been forever.
But maybe it doesn't.
And I have a 15-year career
based on the fact that it
doesn't.
I mean, I talk about
the aware show.
It's about awareness.
It's always very
popular-- of people
wanting to hear how other
people do good in the world.
>>GROUT: People are
so hungry for that.
And it is elevates us.
I puts us on a higher
resonant field.
So we just need to hear that.
And those things that happen
on the typical news-- it's not
really the way the world is.
>>LISA: That would be
so interesting to see
what the world would be like
if we had all of the news shows
that are out there telling
story upon story upon story
of what happened that
was good that day.
I wonder what people
would want to create.
>>GROUT: Yeah.
I mean--
>>LISA: More of the same?
>>GROUT: Yeah.
Of course.
>>LISA: Or a contrast?
I wonder.
>>GROUT: Well,
you see, the thing
is, we can imagine anything.
And that's the thing.
As long as we keep rerunning
these old stories--
these things we
see in the news--
we're going to keep having
the same exact world.
We need to use our imaginations.
We can bring into form
anything we can imagine.
So to be watching
the same old thing,
or even be manifesting
some old thing--
some commercial, materialistic
thing we've had forever-- let's
imagine something
really different we
can create that we can bring
in this whole other world
with our imagination.
>>LISA: Tell me something good.
Yep.
Absolutely.
All right.
So it's in another meme. "It's
important to look at my faults
to name my problems and
to strive to improve."
Meme.
So that striving
to improve-- it's
what the personal development
world is based on, largely.
>>GROUT: Right.
And that just
assumes that there's
something wrong with us.
The fact of it is we
are all just perfect.
If we'd quit striving to
improve, if we'd quit seeking,
we would recognize that.
So yeah, we would go
out looking for disease.
Let's go get a mammogram.
Find out if we
have breast cancer.
Let's go out and
see if we have--
let's do our yearly check up.
Let's go looking for problems.
>>LISA: True.
There's a lot of names
for a lot of diseases.
That's true.
But they say that
that brings awareness.
Go and preventatively
check on your--
>>GROUT: Well, I
disagree with that.
I don't know if you hear
Christiane Northrop's talk
this morning, but she said she
disagrees with that, as well.
There's no solid evidence that
this pre-screening is really
even helpful for public health.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>GROUT: And I would
definitely agree with that.
Because your body is
constantly changing.
It's in a fluid state.
So if you happen to
go in on some day
that there might be
a little cancer cell,
then suddenly it's like,
oh, you've got cancer.
And then you're
focusing on that.
It's this little
worm's gotten in.
And it just takes
over your life.
One of the emails I
got was this woman
who said that she was
diagnosed bipolar.
And so she started
reading every book.
She joined the support group.
It's like, before
long, she said,
I trained myself to be bipolar.
I couldn't leave my house.
So we have done that.
We've trained ourselves
to have these diseases.
And in fact, the pharmaceutical
industry knows this.
And they create these resonant
fields with these diseases.
And then we all believe
that we have them.
They're not any more concrete.
I just was listening
to Alberto "Volvold,"
or however you say his name--
>>LISA: Villoldo.
Yes.
I interviewed him.
>>GROUT: He was saying that
heart disease didn't even
exist in the 1900s.
Nor did Alzheimer's.
So we've created
a lot of things,
because we need to
sell the statins.
We need to sell all this stuff.
So and again, once people
are afraid of things,
and they start putting
their attention on that,
we animate that
particular reality.
So think how
exciting it could be
if we decide to animate a
whole new different reality.
>>LISA: Yes.
He was saying--
in my interview--
there are over 14,000
diseases listed now.
>>GROUT: Oh, in that IEC--
whatever that little manual--
>>LISA: The CDC thing.
Yeah.
And it can be.
And that's true.
It's just a matter of
putting a label on something
so that you could justify
the medication for it.
And Wayne Dyer, who we
saw speak the other night
says that he is cancer-free.
And he says that every day.
I am cancer-free.
And he is cancer-free,
which is amazing.
I'll just cover this
last one, because I
think this is so great.
This one is, "I have to
change, I'm scared to change,
it's hard to change."
So that's a meme that we
think it's hard to change.
We think that.
>>GROUT: But see,
the thing is whatever
reality we believe
is true is no more
true than any other reality.
Again, in this big
quantum world-- in fact,
one of the experiments
I have in there
is to flip a belief you've
long held about yourself.
Like, for example,
one of the beliefs
I've held for the last year
is I don't know how to speak,
because I'm a writer.
That's what I do.
So now I'm having
to go out-- But you
know, that reality that
I'm not very good speaker
is no more true than
the fact that I'm
this dynamic, amazing speaker.
So I ask for people to look for
evidence of the exact opposite.
We get these stories.
We put them on like
a pair of blue jeans.
We wear them out.
Oh, I'm not good
at parties, or I've
never been good with
the opposite sex,
or whatever the
stories would be.
And then we just recreate them
over and over and over again.
So let's look for evidence
of the exact opposite,
because it's just as much
out there as that story
that you've been
telling again and again.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
Well, great information.
The books are "E Cubed"
and "E Squared"--
and lots more coming.
And very, very
popular-- millions
of people around the world--
all around the world--
have been loving your books.
So I'm really glad that you had
a chance to come and visit us.
>>GROUT: Yeah.
Thanks for having me on.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Great information.
And if you'd like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Pam Grout, you
can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]